MLA citation style · Concordia University Library http://library.concordia.ca/help/citing/mla.php 


Ask a Librarian 


Log into ... 

Concordia.ca / Library / Help & how-to / Citing 

« Back | Print 

MLA citation style 


On this page 

Introduction 
Updates from the new edition 

In-text citations 

General guidelines 
Multiple authors or no author 
Audiovisual resources 
Indirect quotations 

Long quotations 


Works cited 

General guidelines 

Two or more works by the same 
creator 
Book with 1 author 
Book with 2 authors 
Book with 3 or more authors 
Anthology or compilation 
Work in an anthology or an 

essay in a book 
Book by a corporate author 
Article in a reference book or an 

entry in an encyclopedia 
Translation 


This guide provides a basic introduction to the MLA citation style. It is 
based on the 8th edition of the MLA Handbook published by the Modern 
Language Association in 2016. This is a new edition of the book, and 
there are several significant changes to MLA style. 

The MLA Handbook is generally used for academic writing in the 
humanities. The handbook itself covers many aspects of research 
writing including evaluating sources, the mechanics of writing, the format 
of the research paper, plagiarism, as well as the way to cite sources. 

This guide provides basic explanations and examples for the most 
common types of citations used by students. For additional information 
and examples, refer to the MLA Handbook. 


Abbreviations: in previous editions, certain abbreviations could be 
used (e.g. “ed.” for “editor”, “trans.” for “translated by”). Based on 
the new edition, these words should be spelled out fully (see Works 
cited -a translation). Note: it is still recommended that you 
abbreviate months with four or more letters (e.g. “September” is 
written as “Sept.”). 
Multiple authors: previously, if a work had one, two, or three 
authors, all the names would be listed. Now, each author is listed 
only if a work has one or two authors (see In-text citations -Multiple 
authors or no authors for examples) 
In works cited entries, the city of publication and medium of 
publication (e.g. Print, Web) are no longer required. 
In works cited entries, the volume and issue number of journal 
articles used to be represented as follows: vol#(issue#) [e.g. 3(2)]. 
However, now they are represented as vol. #, no. # (e.g. vol. 3, no. 
2). 
For sources you find online, include a URL or doi. If possible, use a 
permanent link or a doi. Do not use URL shorteners (e.g. bit.ly, 
goo.gl) as these are unstable and your reader may not be able to 
1 of 15 9/7/2016 2:45 PM 


MLA citation style · Concordia University Library http://library.concordia.ca/help/citing/mla.php 

access these sites in the future. 

Book in a series 

Article in a journal 

Article in a newspaper or 
magazine 
An entire website 
A page on a website 
Social media posts 
Emails 
Sound recording 
YouTube video 
Film, videorecording or DVD 
Television or radio program 
Untitled sources 


With in-text citations, you acknowledge a source by providing a brief 
reference to exactly where in the source you found the information. The 
reader can then use the complete reference listed in the Works Cited 
page at the end of your paper to verify what you have written. Further 
examples and explanations are available in the MLA Handbook. 


In most cases, providing the author's last name and a page number 
is sufficient. Example: 
In response to rapid metropolitan expansion, urban renewal projects 
sought "an order in which more significant kinds of conflict, more 
complex and intellectually stimulating kinds of disharmony, may take 
place" (Mumford 485). 


If you mention the author’s name in your text, only the page 
reference needs to be inserted in parentheses. Example: 
According to Postman, broadcast news influences the decision-making 
process (51-63). 


RefWorks 
How to prepare an annotated 
bibliography 
If there are two authors, include the last name of each. Example: 
(Winks and Kaiser 176) 


If there are three or more authors, include the last name of the first 
author followed by "et al." without any intervening punctuation. 
Example: 
(Baldwin et al. 306) 


If there is no author, as is the case with some web pages, include 
either the whole title of the work in the text or use a shortened form 
of the title in parentheses, using the first words of the title. Italicize 
the titles of books or entire web sites and place the titles of articles 
or individual web pages in quotation marks. 
Example of entire web site: 
Voice of the Shuttle has many electronic sources. 


Example of individual web page: 
Gophers can have many detrimental effects on lawns, including building 

2 of 15 9/7/2016 2:45 PM 


MLA citation style · Concordia University Library http://library.concordia.ca/help/citing/mla.php 

underground tunnels, eating plants, and disturbing root systems 
(“Gophers”). 


If your source has no page numbers, but has labelled section or 
paragraph numbers, you can indicate these numbers in your 
parenthetical reference. If there are no such reference marks, do 
not create or include them in your reference. 
Example where paragraph or section numbers are available: 
Winston argues that "Rourke has lowered his defenses" (par. 29). 


Example where no paragraph or section numbers are available: 
The Lincoln administration was against secession, as it would “create a 
fatal precedent that would eventually fragment the no-longer United 
States into several small, squabbling countries” (McPherson). 


Audiovisual recordings such as videos and songs do not have page 
numbers to be included in in-text citations. For such time-based media, 
you should include the time or range of times for any segment you are 
quoting or discussing. 

Example: 

Near the beginning of the film, a woman tells Johnnie that Lina is “a very 
carefully brought-up young lady” (Suspicion 4:50). 


When citing a quotation which is cited in another source, indicate 
the source you actually consulted in your parenthetical reference 
and in your works cited. Use the abbreviation qtd. in to indicate that 
the information has been quoted in another source. 
Example: 
Landow admitted that there was "work to be done" (qtd. in Rogers 333). 


If you are quoting text that is longer than four typed lines in your paper, 
block indent the passage half an inch (1.27 cm) from the left margin. Do 
not surround the quotation with quotation marks. The parenthetical 
reference follows the final punctuation. 

3 of 15 9/7/2016 2:45 PM 


MLA citation style · Concordia University Library http://library.concordia.ca/help/citing/mla.php 

Example: 

Anderson argues that all nations can be measured: 

The nation is imagined as limited because even 
the largest of them, encompassing perhaps a 
billion living human beings, has finite, if elastic, 
boundaries, beyond which lie other nations. No 
nation imagines itself coterminous with mankind. 
The most messianic nationalists do not dream of 
a day when all the members of the human race 
will join their nation in the way that it was 
possible, in certain epochs, for, say, Christians to 
dream of a wholly Christian planet. (7) 


The alphabetical list of works cited that appears at the end of your paper 
contains more information about all of the sources you've cited, allowing 
readers to refer to them, as needed. The main characteristics are: 


The list of Works Cited must be on a new page at the end of your 
text 
Entries are arranged alphabetically by the author's last name or by 
the title if there is no author 
Titles of books are italicized and titles of articles are placed in 
quotation marks. All important words should be capitalized 
Entries are double-spaced (for the purposes of this page, single-
spacing is used) 
For online sources, date of access is an optional element. However, 
it can be helpful to include this information, especially if the source 
you are using does not have a date of publication 
Begin by arranging the creator’s works in alphabetical order. Create a 
full entry for the first work in the list (following the instructions below). 
For the other work(s), replace the creator’s name by three hyphens and 

4 of 15 9/7/2016 2:45 PM 


MLA citation style · Concordia University Library http://library.concordia.ca/help/citing/mla.php 

arrange alphabetically by the work’s title. 
Example: 

Postman, Neil. Amusing Ourselves to Death: Public 
Discourse in the Age of Show Business. Viking, 1985. 
---. The Disappearance of Childhood. Vintage, 1994. 


Last Name, First Name. Title. Publisher, Year of Publication. 

Example: 
Mumford, Lewis. The Culture of Cities. Harcourt, 1938. 


First Author’s Last Name, First Author’s First Name, and 
Second Author’s First and Last Names. Title. Publisher, 
Year of Publication. 

Example: 

Ormerod, Neil, and Christiaan Jacobs-Vandegeer. 
Foundational Theology. Fortress Press, 2015. 



5 of 15 9/7/2016 2:45 PM 


MLA citation style · Concordia University Library http://library.concordia.ca/help/citing/mla.php 

First Author’s Last Name, First Author’s First Name, et al. 
Title. Publisher, Year of Publication. 

Note: these rules regarding the listing of authors also apply to other 
kinds of sources (e.g. journal articles). 

Example: 

Francis, R. Douglas, et al. Destinies: Canadian History since 
Confederation. Harcourt, 2000. 


Include the word “editor” after the editor’s name. 
Example: 

Abate, Corinne S., editor. Privacy, Domesticity, and Women in 
Early Modern England. Ashgate, 2003. 


Last Name, First Name. “Work Title.” Book Title, edited by 
Editor Name, Publisher, Year, pp. <page range>. 

Example: 

6 of 15 9/7/2016 2:45 PM 


MLA citation style · Concordia University Library http://library.concordia.ca/help/citing/mla.php 

Naremore, James. "Hitchcock at the Margins of Noir." Alfred 
Hitchcock: Centenary Essays, edited by Richard Allen and 

S. Ishii-Gonzalès, BFI, 1999, pp. 263-77. 
Associations, corporations, agencies and organizations are 
considered authors when there is no single author. 

Example: 

Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development. 

Action against Climate Change: The Kyoto Protocol and 
Beyond. OECD, 1999. 


If the article/entry is signed, include the author's name; if unsigned, 
begin with the title of the entry. 

Example of a signed article: 

Guignon, Charles B. "Existentialism." Routledge 
Encyclopedia of Philosophy, edited by Edward Craig. 
Routledge, 1998. 

Example of an unsigned article: 

7 of 15 9/7/2016 2:45 PM 


MLA citation style · Concordia University Library http://library.concordia.ca/help/citing/mla.php 

“Niagara Falls.” Encyclopaedia Britannica. Encyclopaedia 
Britannica, Inc., 2016. 


The translator’s name follows the title of the work. 
Example: 

Murakami, Haruki. 1Q84. Translated by Jay Rubin and Philip 
Gabriel, Alfred A. Knopf, 2011. 


Optionally, you may include the series title at the end of the citation, 
followed by the number in the series if applicable. 
Example: 


Bloom, Harold, editor. André Malraux. Chelsea House, 1988. 
Modern Critical Views. 


Last Name, First Name. “Article Title.” Title of Journal, vol. #, 
no. #, Month/Season Year, pp. <page range>. 

Example: 

8 of 15 9/7/2016 2:45 PM 


MLA citation style · Concordia University Library http://library.concordia.ca/help/citing/mla.php 

Ferrer, Ada. "Cuba 1898: Rethinking Race, Nation, and 
Empire." Radical History Review, vol. 73, Winter 1999, pp. 
22-49. 

NOTE – If an article is not printed on consecutive pages, record the first 
page number followed by a plus sign. If there are no page numbers, 
leave the field blank. 

Example of article with non-consecutive page numbers: 

Mack, Candice. “From the President.” Young Adult Library 
Services, vol. 14, no. 2, Winter 2016, pp. 3+. 

Example of article with no page numbers: 

Sehmby, Dalbir S. "Wrestling and Popular Culture." CCLWeb: 
Comparative Literature and Culture, vol. 4, no. 1, March 
2002. 

Article retrieved from a library database: 

Provide the same information as you would for a printed journal article 
and add the name of the database in italics, and include the URL or doi 
to the article. 

Example: 

Wolfensberger, Donald R. “Happy Together?” The Wilson 
Quarterly, vol. 33, no. 1, Winter 2009, pp. 63-66. JSTOR, 
jstor.org/stable/40262243. 

Example with date of access (optional element): 

9 of 15 9/7/2016 2:45 PM 


MLA citation style · Concordia University Library http://library.concordia.ca/help/citing/mla.php 

Heming, Li, Paul Waley, and Phil Rees. "Reservoir 
Resettlement in China: Past Experience and the Three 
Gorges Dam." The Geographical Journal, vol. 167, no. 3, 
Sept. 2001, pp. 195-212. Wiley-Blackwell Journals, DOI: 
10.1111/1475-4959.00018. Accessed 29 Mar. 2014. 


Last Name, First Name. “Article Title.” Title of Newspaper or 
Magazine, Date, <page range>. 

Examples: 

Semenak, Susan. "Feeling Right at Home: Government 
Residence Eschews Traditional Rules." Montreal Gazette, 
28 Dec. 1995, A4. 

Driedger, Sharon Doyle. "After Divorce." Maclean's, 20 Apr. 
1998, pp. 38-43. 

For newspaper and magazine articles retrieved online, please see 
examples for journal articles retrieved from a library database. 


Last Name, First Name. Title of Website. Date, URL. 

Example: 

10 of 15 9/7/2016 2:45 PM 


MLA citation style · Concordia University Library http://library.concordia.ca/help/citing/mla.php 

Linder, Douglas O. Famous Trials. 2009, 
law2.umkc.edu/faculty/projects/ftrials/ftrials.htm. 


An entry for a nonperiodical item found on the Web contains the 
following: 

Last Name, First Name. "Document Title if Available." Title of 
the Overall Web site, Date, URL. 

If you cannot find some of this information, include only what is 
available. Example (including optional date of access): 

"Joyce Wieland." Celebrating Women's Achievements: 
Women Artists in Canada, 2000, 
collectionscanada.gc.ca/women/030001-1173-e.html. 
Accessed 29 Mar. 2004. 


If the author’s name begins with “@”, disregard it when alphabetizing 
your Works Cited list. Instead, begin with the character immediately 
following it. 

Author. “Full text of post.” Name of Social Media Website, 

Date, Time, URL. 

Twitter example: 

11 of 15 9/7/2016 2:45 PM 


MLA citation style · Concordia University Library http://library.concordia.ca/help/citing/mla.php 

@jk_rowling. “God, I hate this stuff. I’ve winged it my whole 
life. I’ve messed up regularly. There are no rules. Do your 
thing.” Twitter, 12 June 2016, 10:03 a.m., 
twitter.com/jk_rowling/status/742039536688107520. 

Instagram example: 

@montreal. “Doux lundi // Peaceful Monday Photo par / by 

@susanmossphotography #MTLmoments #MTL 
#montreal.” Instagram, 13 June 2016, 5:40 a.m., 
instagram.com/p/BGmFK7Ny9TF/?hl=en. 


Author of email. “Subject.” Received by Recipient Name, 
Date. 

Example: 

Bélanger, Suzanne. “Travaux de Construction.” Received by 
Ravi Vishnaj, 9 Feb. 2016. 


Last Name, First Name. “Title of Track.” Album Title, Record 
Label, Year. 

Example: 

12 of 15 9/7/2016 2:45 PM 


MLA citation style · Concordia University Library http://library.concordia.ca/help/citing/mla.php 

Ellington, Duke. "Black and Tan Fantasy." Music is My 
Mistress, Musicmasters, 1989. 

If the recording was obtained online, include a link to the website. 
Example: 

Jonas, Nick, and Tove Lo. “Close.” Last Year Was 
Complicated, Island and Safehouse, 2016. 
listen.tidal.com/track/61554644. 



“Title of Video.” Video Hosting Service, uploaded by Uploader 
name, date of upload, URL. 

Example: 

“Ken Burns & Henry Louis Gates, Jr. in Conversation with 
Michel Martin.” YouTube, uploaded by BAMorg, 18 Mar. 
2016, youtube.com/watch?v=42OlCnuXN0A. 


The format of your citations depends on the focus of your work. If you 
want to emphasize the role of a particular contributor (such as a director, 
performer, or writer), list the person’s name first, followed by their role, 
then the title of the film. Otherwise, you can start with the title of the film. 

Example where the film title is listed first: 

13 of 15 9/7/2016 2:45 PM 


MLA citation style · Concordia University Library http://library.concordia.ca/help/citing/mla.php 

The Shining. Directed by Stanley Kubrick, performances by 
Jack Nicholson and Shelley Duvall, Warner Bros., 1980. 

Example where a contributor is listed first: 

Nair, Mira, director. Monsoon Wedding. Performances by 
Naseeruddin Shah and Lillete Dubey, Mirabai Films, 2001. 


As with films, videorecordings and DVDs, elements can be ordered in 
different ways depending on what you want to emphasize. Here is how 
citations are structured if no particular contributor is being emphasized: 

“Episode Title.” Program Title, created by Creator Name, 
performance[s] by Performer Name[s], season #, episode 
#, Network, Date. 

Example: 

“Blax, Snake, Home.” Happy Endings, created by David 
Caspe, performance by Elisha Cuthbert, season 2, 
episode 1, ABC, 28 Sept. 2011. 


Example of program obtained from a website (including optional date of 
access): 

14 of 15 9/7/2016 2:45 PM 


MLA citation style · Concordia University Library http://library.concordia.ca/help/citing/mla.php 

“Arianna Huffington.” The Daily Show, created by Lizz 
Winstead and Madeleine Smithberg, performance by 
Trevor Noah, season 21, episode 111, Comedy Central, 
19 May 2016. ctv.ca/TheDailyShow 
/video.aspx?vid=870157. Accessed 12 June 2016. 


This format could apply for items such as artifacts or works of art. 
Creator. Description. Year/Range of Years, Museum, Place. 

Example: 

Savage & Lyman Co. Brooch and earrings. About 1845, 
McCord Museum, Montreal. 

page last updated on: Thursday 7 July 2016 
© Concordia University Terms Privacy Accessibility Feedback 

15 of 15 9/7/2016 2:45 PM 


